samples: matter: Add diagnostic crash logs (#13)
ArekBalysNordic/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/protocols/matter/getting_started/advanced_kconfigs.rst

  * ``kEndUserSupport`` - Logs created by the product maker to be used for end-user support.
  * ``kNetworkDiag``- Logs created by the network layer to be used for network diagnostic.
  * ``kCrashLogs`` - Logs created during a device crash, to be obtained from the node.

Crash logs
----------

> The crash logs module is a part of the diagnostic log module and contains the data of the recent device crash.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The crash logs module is a part of the diagnostic log module and contains the data of the most recent device crash.
```

> When a crash occurs the device saves the crash data to the defined retained RAM partition and therefore to enable crash log support the :ref:`ug_matter_diagnostic_logs_snippet` must be added to the build.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a crash occurs, the device saves the crash data to the defined retained RAM partition.
This means that the :ref:`ug_matter_diagnostic_logs_snippet` must be added to the build to enable crash log support.

```
Note the empty line to create a paragraph break.

> Only the last crash data will be stored in the device's memory, and because of that if another crash occurs the previous one will be overwritten.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Only the last crash data will be stored in the device's memory, meaning that if another crash occurs, the previous data will be overwritten.
```

> After receiving the read request from the Matter controller, the device reads out the crash data from the retained memory or settings storage and creates human readable logs at runtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After receiving the read request from the Matter controller, the device reads the crash data and creates human readable logs at runtime.
```
Settings storage isn't't mentioned until the next paragraph, so it's easier to just leave out where the data is read from for this sentence.

Finally, the device sends converted logs to the Matter controller as a response.

> The :ref:`ug_matter_diagnostic_logs_snippet` enables support for copying the crash data to the Zephyr's settings storage at the first boot after a crash by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the :ref:`ug_matter_diagnostic_logs_snippet` enables copying the crash data to Zephyr's settings storage at the first boot after a crash.
```

> This operation allows the device to keep crash data even if the power breakdown occurs however it will use some space within the settings storage partition and should be taken into account while setting the partition size.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This operation allows the device to keep crash data even if a power breakdown occurs, but it will use some space within the settings storage partition and you need to take it into account while setting the partition size.
```

> If the new crash data is the same as the previous one the entry will not be updated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the new crash data is the same as the previous one, the entry will not be updated.
```

You can disable saving crash data to the settings storage by setting the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MATTER_DIAGNOSTIC_LOGS_SAVE_CRASH_TO_SETTINGS` Kconfig option to ``n``.

> After successfully reading out the crash data it will be removed and each the next read attempt notices user that there is no available data to read.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the crash data is successfully read, it will be removed and further read attempts will notify the user that there is no available data to read.
```

> To keep the recent crash log in the memory after reading it out set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MATTER_DIAGNOSTIC_LOGS_REMOVE_CRASH_AFTER_READ` Kconfig option to ``n``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To keep the recent crash log in the memory after reading it, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MATTER_DIAGNOSTIC_LOGS_REMOVE_CRASH_AFTER_READ` Kconfig option to ``n``.
```

.. _ug_matter_diagnostic_logs_snippet:

Diagnostic logs snippet
-----------------------

> Diagnostic logs snippet provides a set of configurations needed to enable a full diagnostic logs support such as crash logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The diagnostic logs snippet provides a set of configurations needed to enable a full diagnostic logs support such as crash logs.
```

> The configuration set consist of devicetree overlays for each supported target boards and a config file that enables all diagnostic logs features by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The configuration set consist of devicetree overlays for each supported target board, and a config file that enables all diagnostic logs features by default.
```

> The devicetree overlays add the new RAM partition which is configured as retained to keep the crash data and they also reduce the SRAM size according to the retained partition size.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The devicetree overlays add the new RAM partition which is configured as retained to keep the crash data.
They also reduce the SRAM size according to the size of the retained partition.
```

The snippet sets the following kconfig options:

  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MATTER_DIAGNOSTIC_LOGS` to ``y``.
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MATTER_DIAGNOSTIC_LOGS_CRASH_LOGS` to ``y``.
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MATTER_DIAGNOSTIC_LOGS_SAVE_CRASH_TO_SETTINGS` to ``y``.
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MATTER_DIAGNOSTIC_LOGS_REMOVE_CRASH_AFTER_READ` to ``y``.

> To use the snippet when building a sample add ``-S diagnostic-logs`` to the west arguments list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the snippet when building a sample, add ``-S diagnostic-logs`` to the west arguments list.
```

  * ``kEndUserSupport`` - Logs created by the product maker to be used for end-user support.
  * ``kNetworkDiag``- Logs created by the network layer to be used for network diagnostic.
  * ``kCrashLogs`` - Logs created during a device crash, to be obtained from the node.

Crash logs
----------

The crash logs module is a part of the diagnostic log module and contains the data of the most recent device crash.
When a crash occurs, the device saves the crash data to the defined retained RAM partition.

> This means that the :ref:`ug_matter_diagnostic_logs_snippet` must be added to the build to enable crash log support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because it uses the retained RAM partition, the :ref:`ug_matter_diagnostic_logs_snippet` must be added to the build to enable crash log support.
```

Only the last crash data will be stored in the device's memory, meaning that if another crash occurs, the previous data will be overwritten.
After receiving the read request from the Matter controller, the device reads the crash data and creates human readable logs at runtime.
Finally, the device sends converted logs to the Matter controller as a response.

By default, the :ref:`ug_matter_diagnostic_logs_snippet` enables copying the crash data to Zephyr's settings storage at the first boot after a crash.
This operation allows the device to keep crash data even if a power breakdown occurs, but it will use some space within the settings storage partition and you need to take it into account while setting the partition size.
If the new crash data is the same as the previous one, the entry will not be updated.
You can disable saving crash data to the settings storage by setting the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MATTER_DIAGNOSTIC_LOGS_SAVE_CRASH_TO_SETTINGS` Kconfig option to ``n``.

After the crash data is successfully read, it will be removed and further read attempts will notify the user that there is no available data to read.

> To keep the recent crash log in the memory after reading it, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MATTER_DIAGNOSTIC_LOGS_REMOVE_CRASH_AFTER_READ` Kconfig option to ``n``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To keep the crash log in the memory after reading it, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MATTER_DIAGNOSTIC_LOGS_REMOVE_CRASH_AFTER_READ` Kconfig option to ``n``.
```

.. _ug_matter_diagnostic_logs_snippet:

Diagnostic logs snippet
-----------------------

> The diagnostic logs snippet provides a set of configurations needed to enable a full diagnostic logs support such as crash logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The diagnostic logs snippet enables the set of configurations needed for full diagnostic logs support, such as crash logs.
```

The configuration set consist of devicetree overlays for each supported target board, and a config file that enables all diagnostic logs features by default.

> The devicetree overlays add the new RAM partition which is configured as retained to keep the crash data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The devicetree overlays add a new RAM partition which is configured as retained to keep the crash data.
```
